Netlist converter
=================

CSharp application for converting a custom netlist format to HTML files or PNG images. It was made for documenting
all the cells and traces on the Game Boy chip DMG-CPU B.

Read [INSTALL](INSTALL) for build/install instructions.

This HTML file was generated by this tool:<br>
[DMG-CPU B Netlist](http://iceboy.a-singer.de/doc/dmg_cpu_b_netlist.html)

PNGs generated by this tool can be seen in this browser map of the chip:<br>
[DMG-CPU B Map](http://iceboy.a-singer.de/dmg_cpu_b_map/)<br>


Usage
-----

Generate HTML file containing all types, cells and wires:
```
nlconv --html <input.nl >output.html
```

Generate PNG image containing all cells:
```
nlconv --png-cells <input.nl >output.png
```

Generate PNG image containing all wires:
```
nlconv --png-wires <input.nl >output.png
```

Generate PNG image containing all labels:
```
nlconv --png-labels <input.nl >output.png
```

Generate PNG image containing a floorplan:
```
nlconv --png-floor <input.nl >output.png
```

Generate PNG image containing everything:
```
nlconv --png <input.nl >output.png
```

Generate Java Script containing all coordinates to be used by the [map](https://github.com/msinger/dmg_cpu_b_map):
```
nlconv --js <input.nl >output.js
```


TODO
----

Not yet implemented, but planned:
* Generate Verilog code containing all cells and wires.


Input format
------------

All keywords are case-insensitive. User defined names are case-sensitive.
The netlist that gets fed into STDIN of this application can contain type, signal, cell, wire, label and
category definitions in any order.


### Type definition

The `TYPE` keyword is used to define cell types. Those cell types can then be used for defining instances of cells using
the `CELL` keyword.

```
TYPE <type-name>[:<color>] <port-name>[:<port-dir>]
                           [<port-name>[:<port-dir>]...]
     [@<cell-coordinates>]
     [<port-name>@<port-coordinates>...]
     ["<description-string>" [DOC "<documentation-url>"]];
```

<dl>
  <dt>&lt;type-name&gt;</dt>
  <dd>Unique name of the cell type, like <code>nand2</code> for example.</dd>

  <dt>&lt;color&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Color that will be used when drawing cell instances of this type.
    Can be one of: <code>BLACK</code>, <code>BLUE</code>, <code>CYAN</code>, <code>GREEN</code>, <code>LIME</code>,
    <code>MAGENTA</code>, <code>ORANGE</code>, <code>PURPLE</code>, <code>RED</code>, <code>TEAL</code>,
    <code>YELLOW</code>, <code>PINK</code>, <code>NAVY</code>, <code>BROWN</code>, <code>GRAY</code> or
    <code>WHITE</code>. Defaults to <code>BLACK</code> if not given.
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;port-name&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Name of a port that cells of this type have. Can occur multiple times. When followed by a space or
    colon, it defines the port itself. When followed by a <code>@</code>, it specifies the coordinates of that port.
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;port-dir&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Port direction. Can be one of: <code>IN</code>, <code>OUT</code>, <code>TRI</code>, <code>INOUT</code>,
    <code>OUT0</code>, <code>OUT1</code> or <code>NC</code>. Defaults to <code>IN</code>.
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;cell-coordinates&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Two two-dimensional vectors, describing the bounding box of a cell of this type.
    This is used to convert the absolute <b>&lt;port-coordinates&gt;</b> to coordinates relative to the
    center of this bounding box, so they can be used as default coordinates for all cells of this type that
    do not have them explicitly specified.
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;port-coordinates&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    One or two two-dimensional vectors, describing either a point or line, where this port is located. Those port
    coordinates will be used for all cells of this type that do not have port coordinates explicitely specified
    alongside their own <code>CELL</code> definition.
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;description-string&gt;</dt>
  <dd>A string in double quotes that describes the function of cells of this type.</dd>

  <dt>&lt;documentation-url&gt;</dt>
  <dd>An URL in double quotes that contains more detailed information about cells of this type.</dd>
</dl>


### Signal definition

The `SIGNAL` keyword is used to define wire signal classes. Those wire signal classes can then be used for defining
instances of wires using the `WIRE` keyword.

```
SIGNAL <signal-name>[:<color>] ["<description-string>"];
```

<dl>
  <dt>&lt;signal-name&gt;</dt>
  <dd>Unique name of the wire signal class, like <code>clock</code> for example.</dd>

  <dt>&lt;color&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Color that will be used when drawing wire instances of this signal class.
    Can be one of: <code>BLACK</code>, <code>BLUE</code>, <code>CYAN</code>, <code>GREEN</code>, <code>LIME</code>,
    <code>MAGENTA</code>, <code>ORANGE</code>, <code>PURPLE</code>, <code>RED</code>, <code>TEAL</code>,
    <code>YELLOW</code>, <code>PINK</code>, <code>NAVY</code>, <code>BROWN</code>, <code>GRAY</code> or
    <code>WHITE</code>. Defaults to <code>BLACK</code> if not given.
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;description-string&gt;</dt>
  <dd>A string in double quotes that describes this wire signal class.</dd>
</dl>


### Cell definition

The `CELL` keyword is used to define cell instances.

```
CELL <cell-name>:<type-name> [<orientation>[,FLIP]]
     [@<cell-coordinates>] [<port-name>@<port-coordinates>...]
     [<flags>...] [-> <category>] ["<description-string>"];
```

<dl>
  <dt>&lt;cell-name&gt;</dt>
  <dd>Unique name of the cell instance.</dd>

  <dt>&lt;type-name&gt;</dt>
  <dd>Cell type being instanciated.</dd>

  <dt>&lt;orientation&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Defines the clock-wise rotation of the cell. Can be one of: <code>ROT0</code>, <code>ROT90</code>,
    <code>ROT180</code> or <code>ROT270</code>. If not given, then orientation will be undefined and the
    cell may not be drawn in images. Can be appended with <code>,FLIP</code>, which means that the cell is
    flipped horizontally (reflected along the central vertical axis) before the rotation is applied.
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;cell-coordinates&gt;</dt>
  <dd>Two two-dimensional vectors, describing the bounding box of the cell instance.</dd>

  <dt>&lt;port-coordinates&gt;</dt>
  <dd>One or two two-dimensional vectors, describing either a point or line, where this port is located.</dd>

  <dt>&lt;flags&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Any combination of the following flags may be applied to the cell:
    <ul>
      <li><code>SPARE</code>:   This is a spare cell that has no relevant function.</li>
      <li><code>VIRTUAL</code>: This cell does not actually exist in the circuit. May just be used to please the
                                electrical rules checker.</li>
      <li><code>COMP</code>:    This cell may not be drawn in the schematics, because it just provides a complement
                                clock for some latches or flip-flops.</li>
      <li><code>TRIVIAL</code>: This cell is not drawn in the schematics, because it is basically just wiring.</li>
    </ul>
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;category&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    The optional category describes to which part of the circuit this cell belongs to. It is used when drawing the
    floorplan. Categories can be defined with the <code>CATEGORY</code> keyword.
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;description-string&gt;</dt>
  <dd>A string in double quotes that describes the function of this cell instance within the circuit.</dd>
</dl>

Cells can have alias names. This is useful for example when a cell got renamed at some point. Then it can still
have an alias with its old name, so it can still be found in the HTML document when someone searches for it by
that old name. Aliases are specified with separate statements that must come somewhere after the cell definition:

```
ALIAS CELL <alias>... -> <cell-name>;
```

<dl>
  <dt>&lt;alias&gt;</dt>
  <dd>One or more alias names for the cell. Each of them must be unique within the cell namespace.</dd>

  <dt>&lt;cell-name&gt;</dt>
  <dd>Name of the cell instance.</dd>
</dl>


### Wire definition

The `WIRE` keyword is used to define connections between cell ports.

```
WIRE <wire-name>[:<signal-class>] [UNCHECKED] <source-ports>...
     [-> <drain-ports>...] [@<wire-coordinates>...] ["<description-string>"];
```

<dl>
  <dt>&lt;wire-name&gt;</dt>
  <dd>Unique name of the wire.</dd>

  <dt>&lt;signal-class&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Optional wire signal class. Used for drawing wires in different colors. Wire signal classes can be defined with the
    <code>SIGNAL</code> keyword.
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;source-ports&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    One or more source ports in the form <code>&lt;cell&gt;.&lt;port&gt;</code> that are driving this wire. Only ports
    with the following directions are allowed as source ports: <code>OUT</code>, <code>TRI</code>, <code>INOUT</code>,
    <code>OUT0</code> or <code>OUT1</code>. If direction is <code>OUT</code>, then the wire must have only one source port.
    if one port has the direction <code>OUT0</code> or <code>OUT1</code>, then all source ports must have the same
    direction. Only <code>TRI</code> and <code>INOUT</code> ports can be intermixed. Placing <code>UNCHECKED</code>
    before the first source port allows having multiple ports with <code>OUT</code> direction.
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;drain-ports&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Zero or more input ports in the form <code>&lt;cell&gt;.&lt;port&gt;</code> that are receiving the signal from
    this wire. Only ports with direction <code>IN</code> are allowed as drain ports. <code>INOUT</code> ports are
    technically inputs too, but they have to be listed under source ports, because they can also drive the wire.
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;wire-coordinates&gt;</dt>
  <dd>List of two-dimensional vectors, describing a continuous strip of lines fitting the shape of the wire.</dd>

  <dt>&lt;description-string&gt;</dt>
  <dd>A string in double quotes that describes the signal carried by this wire within the circuit.</dd>
</dl>

Wires can have alias names. This is useful for example when a wire got renamed at some point. Then it can still
have an alias with its old name, so it can still be found in the HTML document when someone searches for it by
that old name. Aliases are specified with separate statements that must come somewhere after the wire definition:

```
ALIAS WIRE <alias>... -> <wire-name>;
```

<dl>
  <dt>&lt;alias&gt;</dt>
  <dd>One or more alias names for the wire. Each of them must be unique within the wire namespace.</dd>

  <dt>&lt;wire-name&gt;</dt>
  <dd>Name of the wire instance.</dd>
</dl>


### Label definition

The `LABEL` keyword is used to define custom labels placed when generating the labels image.

```
LABEL "<text>"[:<color>] [<orientation>[,FLIP]]
      @<label-coordinates> [<alignment>];
```

<dl>
  <dt>&lt;text&gt;</dt>
  <dd>Text in double quotes. This is the actual label text that will be drawn.</dd>

  <dt>&lt;color&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Color that will be used when drawing this label.
    Can be one of: <code>BLACK</code>, <code>BLUE</code>, <code>CYAN</code>, <code>GREEN</code>, <code>LIME</code>,
    <code>MAGENTA</code>, <code>ORANGE</code>, <code>PURPLE</code>, <code>RED</code>, <code>TEAL</code>,
    <code>YELLOW</code>, <code>PINK</code>, <code>NAVY</code>, <code>BROWN</code>, <code>GRAY</code> or
    <code>WHITE</code>. Defaults to <code>BLACK</code> if not given.
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;orientation&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Defines the clock-wise rotation of the label. Can be one of: <code>ROT0</code>, <code>ROT90</code>,
    <code>ROT180</code> or <code>ROT270</code>. Can be appended with <code>,FLIP</code>, which means that the text
    will be flipped horizontally (reflected along the central vertical axis) before the rotation is applied.
    If not given, defaults to <code>ROT0</code>, not flipped.
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;label-coordinates&gt;</dt>
  <dd>A two-dimensional vector, describing the location where this label gets drawn.</dd>

  <dt>&lt;alignment&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Defines the alignment of the label to the location described by &lt;label-coordinates&gt;. Can be one of:
    <code>CENTER</code>, <code>TOP-LEFT</code>, <code>TOP-CENTER</code>, <code>TOP-RIGHT</code>,
    <code>CENTER-LEFT</code>, <code>CENTER-RIGHT</code>, <code>BOTTOM-LEFT</code>, <code>BOTTOM-CENTER</code>
    or <code>BOTTOM-RIGHT</code>. Defaults to <code>CENTER</code> if not given.
  </dd>
</dl>


### Category definition

The `CATEGORY` keyword is used to define cell categories. A cell can optionally have a category assigned to it,
which is used for determining its color when drawing the floorplan.

```
CATEGORY <category-name>[:<color>] ["<description-string>"];
```

<dl>
  <dt>&lt;category-name&gt;</dt>
  <dd>Unique name of the category.</dd>

  <dt>&lt;color&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Color that will be used when drawing cells of this category in the floorplan.
    Can be one of: <code>BLACK</code>, <code>BLUE</code>, <code>CYAN</code>, <code>GREEN</code>, <code>LIME</code>,
    <code>MAGENTA</code>, <code>ORANGE</code>, <code>PURPLE</code>, <code>RED</code>, <code>TEAL</code>,
    <code>YELLOW</code>, <code>PINK</code>, <code>NAVY</code>, <code>BROWN</code>, <code>GRAY</code> or
    <code>WHITE</code>. If no color is given, then it is not drawn in the floorplan.
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;description-string&gt;</dt>
  <dd>A string in double quotes that describes this category.</dd>
</dl>


### String definition

The `DEFINE` keyword is used to define strings that can influence the output file.

```
DEFINE <string-name> ["<string-value>"...];
```
or
```
DEFINE <string-name> <float-value>;
```

<dl>
  <dt>&lt;string-name&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Name of the string. Can be any valid identifier name, but only the following have an effect:
    <ul>
      <li><code>default-doc-url</code>: Provides a default value for the documentation URL of type definitions.
                                        Use <code>%t</code> as substitution for the name of the type.</li>
      <li><code>map-url</code>:         The URL to the Leaflet map which is used in generated HTML code.</li>
      <li><code>html-title</code>:      Title and headline of generated HTML file.</li>
      <li><code>html-navbar</code>:     Code inserted as navigation bar in generated HTML file.</li>
      <li><code>html-footer</code>:     Code inserted as footer in generated HTML file.</li>
      <li><code>png-scale</code>:       Scaling of lines and crosses in generated PNG file.</li>
      <li><code>js-wire-scale</code>:   Scaling of wire width for collision detection in generated JavaScript file.</li>
    </ul>
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;string-value&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Zero or more string literals containing the value that is assigned to the string definition. All given string literals
    get concatenated. Zero string literals are equivalent to the empty string.
  </dd>

  <dt>&lt;float-value&gt;</dt>
  <dd>
    Float literal gets converted to a string. Or in other words, if second argument is a float value, then the
    quotes can be omitted: <code>1.23</code> is equal to <code>"1.23"</code>.
  </dd>
</dl>
